---
layout: post
title:  "Why I want to learn to program"
date:   2017-01-25 05:32:06 +0000
---



I sort of stumbled into this programming path that I have embarked on. I am a musician and have recorded many songs. I was brainstorming and thought that it would be great to start a publishing website where I would offer my songs (and possibly other peoples songs), for licensing. I began reading about publishing and once I felt I was base-level proficient in that area, I started to think about how I would get the website up. I subscribed to a service with a drag and drop website creator interface and was trying to get something together but I felt sort of boxed in. I had always remembered some really simple html I had learned (maybe 10?) years ago and always thought that it was something I would again persue. I decided to sign up for a web hosting service where I would have to create the website entirely on my own, without really knowing what I was doing. I figured this would force me to learn. 

I started with a FOR DUMMIES book, and got my bearings a little bit. As soon as I got started I realized how hooked on this I was going to become. Programming seemed to fire off the same cylanders in my brain that music did. I really, really liked it. I remember once that a friend who was going to become an electrician said to me "working as an electrician is great and really satisfying, because you know if you did a good job or not. It either works, or it doesn't. The lights either go on, or they don't." I liked this idea a lot, but at the same time I was kind of scared of the notion of possibly being electrocuted in the process. This statement came back to me when I started to program. It's super satisfying because you can tell you make progress when the proverbial "light goes on" or, your program works the way you expect. Music is very subjective and there is no real wrong or right answer. Even though this is also clearly the case in programming ( with infinite creative choices ) there is that aspect of it either "working, or not." I love that (and safer than working with electricity!).

So I got all those feelings just working with HTML and CSS. I was really enjoying it but I kept hearing about Javascript while trying to do what I was doing so I decided to watch a tutorial on that. This is when I really knew I wanted to pursue programming as a career. I was enjoying the web design but deep down I am not a very visually inclined person. I was hooked though when I started learning about functions, variables, and the very basics of object orientation. Actually it blew my mind. I found it just the right level of challenging.  I could grasp it little by little, and for every thing I learned, 10 other new concepts revealed themselves. I found it so intriguing. From there, I started subscribing to a bunch of online coding tutorial sites and was glued to them nightly. 

Now coming to Flatiron I have fallen in love with Ruby. It's really made me feel like I'm honing in on what I'd like to do, backend Ruby development. The work with databases has been challenging and fun. I've embraced the culture and spend a lot of time on forums reading everything I can.

I really want to be a programmer simply because I've been bitten by the bug. When I'm not working on it I'm thinking about it. There is the addage that if you love what you do you'll never work a day in your life, and I could see that being the case here. I am also still very much into music and sort of have these two tracks going simultaneously. I've finished the website all on my own, even designed the front page player completely out of javascript, and plan on making it go live soon. So glad to be a part of this community!
